+++
title = "2017 in Review"
draft = false
date = 2017-12-31
slug = "2017-in-review"
+++

2017 is over within the next few hours and I fell obliged to write something about it. Hopefully I won't have too much regrets by the time I finish this post.


## What Have I Done {#what-have-i-done}

I have been working full time since June. Working life is surprisingly more
relaxing than I expected. My daily schedule has seen a great increase in
stability: no more 4-hour-sleeping-schedule is an obvious improvement and I can
finally set aside time for my interests.

By the end of 2017, I have:

-   Set up my new blog and wrote more stuff than 2015 and 2016 combined.
-   Been using Emacs for 3 months.
-   Been using my own email for 3 months.
-   Found out I am pretty good at cooking.
-   Been running nearly daily for 6 months. I finished my first half-marathon with
    a sub 2 hour time.
-   Lost 20 pounds since June thanks to running.

Doesn't look too shabby huh? It's been a great year.


## What's Next {#what-s-next}

I've gotten into the habit of listening to Dayo Wong's stand-up comedy from time
to time and for some reason one of his earlier shows _跟住去边度_ ( _What's
Next_ ) left the deepest impression on me. I now also post this question to
myself. Here's where I will be in 2018:

-   Train for a full marathon and hopefully finish one.
-   Write at least 20 blog articles.
-   Get the first signature for my PGP key.
-   Install Gentoo.
-   Read more, watch less.

If I've learned anything from my past failed plans, it would be to always
underestimate my own capabilities when planning, so I will just stop my list
here and add additional goals as I march into 2018.

Happy New Year and hopefully 2018 will be another spectacular one!
